[River] Design guidelines (#338)
primer/brand: apps/docs/content/components/River/index.mdx

---

import ComponentLayout from '../../../src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

![A river component used to showcase a security feature. The title reads "Get security feedback with every git push" and it includes an image showing screenshots of of a CLI prompt with the git push command and a code scanning screenshot.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/175638/203f49ae-e87c-4b66-8df0-22a1c8bad1b6)

## Usage

Use rivers to showcase features and introduce topics. Rivers compose images or videos and text together. River's text includes a heading, body text, and an optional link.

River content should be short and concise, no longer than 3 or 4 sentences and in a single paragraph when possible.

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      alt=""
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/175638/8b3057f9-00c5-4bf5-af44-00b0129c6c6e"
    />
    <Caption>Write short and concise text content.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      alt=""
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/175638/ea902be3-2032-49de-bdb4-23be0c0f090d"
    />
    <Caption>Don't overload the river with too much content.</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

### Stacked

> Two or more rivers can be stacked to walk the user through a set of feautres. When stacking rivers, consider alternating between left and right alignments to create a more dynamic reading flow. When alternating alignements, use a `40:60` image to text ratio, when not, keep the ratio to `50:50`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two or more rivers can be stacked to guide the user through a set of feautres. When stacking rivers, use alternating between left and right alignments to create a more dynamic reading flow. When alternating alignements, use a `40:60` image to text ratio, otherwise keep the ratio to `50:50`.
```

Reviewer: in case you don't use this suggestion, there's also a typo that should be fixed ☝️

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      alt=""
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/2b763c62-4d56-4d60-9cae-f663407e0506"
    />
    <Caption>Alternate rivers with left and right alignments.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      alt=""
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/6c7b42a7-0048-4539-99f3-a1c3beb8ee70"

>     />

Reviewer: ❤️ calling it now.. this will be the most referred to guideline 😆

    <Caption>
      Don't stack numerous rivers with 40:60 ratio without alternating left and
      right alignments.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

> Note that too many rivers can make the design feel repetitive, in that situation, consider introducing a breakout section or break the content with a different component, such as [pillar](/components/Pillar) or [card](/components/Card) to provide a better visual hierarchy and experience. For example, use the river for the top features you want to highlight and then use pillars to showcase the rest of the features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that too many rivers can make the design feel repetitive. In that situation, consider introducing a breakout section or break the content with a different component, such as [pillar](/components/Pillar) or [card](/components/Card) to provide a better visual hierarchy and experience. For example, use the river for the top features you want to highlight and then use pillars to showcase the rest.
```
